_pages/about.md, before:

---
permalink: /
title: "About me"
excerpt: "About me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---
This is Aitor Alvarez-Gila's personal webpage.

I am a senior researcher at [Tecnalia](http://www.tecnalia.com/)'s [Computer Vision Group](http://www.computervisionbytecnalia.com/en/).
My main research interests are deep learning and other machine learning / computer vision models for image understanding, computational color and spectral imaging.
I have been building stuff that works based on these and other techniques (3D reconstruction, image enhancement for adverse weather, radiometry, etc.) since 2010 for biomedical, steelmaking, agro and packaging industries, among others.

I got my PhD on deep learning in July 2022 from Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona (UAB). [The thesis]({{ site.url }}/posts/2022/07/phddefence/) was developed at [Computer Vision Center](http://www.cvc.uab.es/)'s [LAMP (Learning And Machine Perception)](http://www.cvc.uab.es/LAMP/) team, under the supervision of Joost van de Weijer (CVC) and Estibaliz Garrote (Tecnalia). 
 
Prior to that, I completed the [Erasmus Mundus CIMET Master (Color in Informatics and Media Technology)](https://master-colorscience.eu/programme/cimet-master-degree/) in color science and computer vision and made research stays at the Universities of Granada (ES), Saint-Etienne (FR), Gjøvik (NO) and Amsterdam (NL) from 2008 until 2010.

In past lives, I've also been a consultant in a dark suit working for multinational financial companies and public administration.

Even before that, I did some research on network security at the University of the Basque Country, where I first graduated as Telecommunications Engineer (2005).

Commit message:

Updated about to lead researcher and current interests

_pages/about.md, after:

---
permalink: /
title: "About me"
excerpt: "About me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---
This is Aitor Alvarez-Gila's personal webpage.

I am a lead researcher at [Tecnalia](http://www.tecnalia.com/)'s [Computer Vision and Visual Interaction group]](https://www.tecnalia.com/en/technologies/computer-vision-and-visual-interaction).
My main research interests are deep learning and other machine learning / computer vision models for image and 3D understanding, and spectral imaging. **UPDATE 2023** I now also care about multimodal (e.g. Vision & Language) and the latest trends in generative models, of course, who doesn't?
I have been building stuff that works based on these and other techniques (3D reconstruction, image enhancement for adverse weather, radiometry, etc.) since 2010 for biomedical, steelmaking, agro and packaging industries, among others.

I got my PhD on deep learning in July 2022 from Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona (UAB). [The thesis]({{ site.url }}/posts/2022/07/phddefence/) was developed at [Computer Vision Center](http://www.cvc.uab.es/)'s [LAMP (Learning And Machine Perception)](http://www.cvc.uab.es/LAMP/) team, under the supervision of Joost van de Weijer (CVC) and Estibaliz Garrote (Tecnalia). 
 
Prior to that, I completed the [Erasmus Mundus CIMET Master (Color in Informatics and Media Technology)](https://master-colorscience.eu/programme/cimet-master-degree/) in color science and computer vision and made research stays at the Universities of Granada (ES), Saint-Etienne (FR), Gjøvik (NO) and Amsterdam (NL) from 2008 until 2010.

In past lives, I've also been a consultant in a dark suit working for multinational financial companies and public administration.

Even before that, I did some research on network security at the University of the Basque Country, where I first graduated as Telecommunications Engineer (2005).
